Maven :
========

Defination : Maven is a powerful project management tool that is based on POM (Project Object Module).
- It is used for projects build, dependency and documentation.

Dependency :
------------
	It is defined as a state of needing something or someone.
	ex., if a one person want to go restaurant. and restaraunt is away from his home.
	He want to reach in that restaurant quickly. If he go through the walk, it will take time, if he will 
	go through the car or any other vechile he will reach on time. So here he depend on the car to reach on time 
	in restaurant. Here car will be the dependecy of that person.

POM.XML :
---------

- POM is an acronym for Project Object Model.
- The pom.xml file contains information :
	1. Dependencies
	2. Build directory
	3. Source directory
	4. Test source directory
	5. Plugin
	6. Goals etc.
- Maven reads the pom.xml file, then executes the goal.


Maven Terminologies :
----------------------
1. artifact :- It is an outcome in maven, it can be a file, .class file or jar file, war file, ear file etc.

2. archetype :- It is project template for creating similar type of project in maven.

3. GroupId : It is an ID used to identify the artifacts of a particular organization (naming convention is similar to package name.) ex., com.masai

4. It is the ID for the final outcome (artifactid name will be the root folder of our application)

Understanding the problem without Maven :
-----------------------------------------
1. Adding ser of jars in each project :- In case of struts, spring, hibernate frameworks we need to add set of jar files in each project. It must include all the dependencies of jars also.

2. Building and deploying the project : we must have to build and deploy the project so that it may work.

Maven's Objectives :
--------------------
1. making the build process easy
2. providing a uniform build system.
3. providing quality project information.
4. encouraging better development pratices.

Maven repository : 
------------------
	A Maven repository is a directory of packaged JAR file with pom.xml file. Maven searches for dependencies in the repositories.
	1. Local Repository
	2. Central Repository
	3. Remote Repository

	- Maven dependencies order : Local Repository -> Central Repository -> Remote Repository
	- If dependency is not found in these repositories, maen stops processing and throws an error.

Maven Build Life Cycle : 
-------------------------
1. Validate
2. Compile
3. Test-Compile
4. Test
5. Package
6. Install
7. Deploy
8. Clean



ORM :
=====
- ORM stands for Object Relational Mapping
- It is a programming technique for converting data between incompatible type systems using object-oriented programming languages.
- It means you can write database queries using the object oriented paradigm of your preferred language.
- ORM sets the mapping between the set of objects which are written in the preferred programming languages like javascript and relational database like SQL.
- It hides and encapsulate the SQL queires into objects and instead of SQL queries we can use directly the objects to implement the SQL query.
